DOCS-9826: TGW topics (#448)
mulesoft/docs-runtime-manager: modules/ROOT/pages/tgw-about.adoc

= Transit Gateway Attachments
ifndef::env-site,env-github[]
include::_attributes.adoc[]
endif::[]

image:logo-cloud-active.png[xref="deployment-strategies.adoc#cloudhub-deployments", title="CloudHub"]
image:logo-hybrid-disabled.png[xref="deployment-strategies.adoc#hybrid-deployments", title="Hybrid"]
image:logo-server-disabled.png[xref="deployment-strategies.adoc#anypoint-platform-pce-deployments", title="Anypoint Platform PCE"]
image:logo-rtf-disabled.png[xref="deployment-strategies.adoc#anypoint-runtime-fabric-deployments", title="Runtime Fabric"]

AWS Transit Gateway acts as a cloud router in AWS, simplifying network access between VPCs,

> on-premise, and third-party software, while providing increased visibility and control over the network.

Reviewer: GLOBALLY change "on-premise" to "on-premises" and provide the appropriate noun to which this adjective applies, or the appropriate verb to which this adverb applies:

"...between VPCs, on-premise [installations? instances? some other noun object?], and third-party software...."

Reviewer: Ah, "datacenters" is the object used below.
Please correct this GLOBALLY to two words, per term presentation list: "data centers"
If you believe it should be one word, let me know and we can evaluate (but I see that you later use two words).

Transit gateways effectively merge your organization’s cloud resources and on-premises datacenters
into one network topology.

> On CloudHub, you can take advantage of this network simplification by securely attaching an Anypoint Virtual Private Cloud (VPC)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
On CloudHub, you can take advantage of this network simplification by securely attaching Anypoint Virtual Private Cloud (VPC)
```

> to an AWS Transit Gateway in your AWS account.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
to AWS Transit Gateway in your AWS account.
```
...or keep the articles and provide noun objects after the two names.

You can add multiple transit gateways to your Anypoint Platform organization.
The number of transit gateways you can add depends on the transit gateway entitlements available to your account. 
Contact your MuleSoft account representative if you don't know how many entitlements are associated with your account. 

== Limitations

> The following limits are governed by AWS limits:

Reviewer: Can we avoid repeating "limits"?
```suggestion
The following values are governed by AWS limits:
```

> = Transit Gateway Attachments

Reviewer: I'm not sure how this topic might develop, considering that your tech reviewers have not all responded, but I wonder if the content here could be just one topic, without the solitary subtopics? 
Perhaps the title could be Transit Gateways, Attachments, and Limitations (although the limitations text is just a link)?

Reviewer 2: I'm not sure if it's appropriate to mention attachments in the main heading. They _do_ have to accept an attachment in AWS for each VPC they want to connect to their TGW, but we represent this in the UI as just part of the flow, rather than main object they're creating/managing. IMO just "Transit Gateways" would be fine here (and in most places where we're not specifically talking about steps related to creating/accepting attachments).

Author: @evinaku - can you weigh in? (This came from Vinay.)

Author: I'm going to go with Transit Gateways and Taylor's recommendation. I'll let Vinay correct in his review, if necessary.

ifndef::env-site,env-github[]
include::_attributes.adoc[]
endif::[]

image:logo-cloud-active.png[link="/runtime-manager/deployment-strategies#cloudhub", title="CloudHub"]
image:logo-hybrid-disabled.png[link="/runtime-manager/deployment-strategies#hybrid", title="Hybrid"]
image:logo-server-disabled.png[link="/runtime-manager/deployment-strategies#anypoint-platform-private-cloud-edition", title="Anypoint Platform PCE"]
image:logo-rtf-disabled.png[link="/runtime-manager/deployment-strategies#anypoint-runtime-fabric", title="Runtime Fabric"]

> A transit gateway is a network hub that connects your on-premises networks to your VPCs.

Reviewer: optionally tag as a term being defined:
```suggestion
A _transit gateway_ is a network hub that connects your on-premises networks to your VPCs.
```

Reviewer: This is the first use of "VPC": should it be spelled out here rather than later?

> The transit gateway simplifies your network connectivity by functioning
> as a cloud router, managing your VPC connections and requiring only one connection from CloudHub.

Reviewer: "managing...and requiring" made me stumble; they don't seem parallel. Would this work?
```suggestion
The transit gateway simplifies your network connectivity by functioning
as a cloud router, managing all of your VPC connections by using single CloudHub connection.
```

Author: Addressed.

Use transit gateway attachments to create a secure connection between your Virtual Private Cloud (VPC) and your private corporate networks.

> You can add multiple transit gateway attachments if required. 

Reviewer: Is there a distinction between the gateway and gateway "attachments"?
Acting as a router, the gateway manages "VPC connections" but the attachments connect "your VPC" to your private networks?

Reviewer: Maybe this is a good place to add the limitations cross-ref?

> [NOTE]

Reviewer: Does this need to be emphasized in a note, or can we just tag it on to the previous sentence?
```suggestion
You can add multiple transit gateway attachments, depending on your account entitlements....
```

> The number of transit gateways you can add depends on the transit gateway entitlements available to your account.

Reviewer: The number of transit gateways or attachments?
I think we might need to make a distinction or limit use to the best of the two terms, if they mean the same thing.

Reviewer 2: My understanding is that the customer's entitlement is for a certain number of TGWs, but we don't impose a limit on the number of VPCs they can attach to each TGW. Vinay can correct me if I got this wrong.

I read elsewhere in this doc (I think) that TGWs are technically limited to 10 attachments each. I assumed that a constraint imposed by AWS, not us.

Author: Clarified.
The 10 attachments per TGW is an AWS constraint.

Contact your MuleSoft account representative if you don't know how many entitlements are associated with your account. 

> == Transit Gateway Routing

Reviewer: Getting back to my original question, I wonder if this text can follow the first mention of routing in the previous text?

Author: I would like to be able to link to the routing section from other places.

VPC supports static routing for transit gateway attachments.

> You must configure the routes (subnets) in your network that you want to be accessible through the transit gateway attachments:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You must configure the network routes (subnets) that you want to be accessible through the transit gateway attachments:
```

> * On Anypoint Platform, add the AWS VPC routes to the transit gateway route table.

Reviewer 2: These routes are for inbound traffic (into the VPC) from some external network. FYI this configuration doesn't always happen in AWS, and it can be pretty complex. We may have to be more vague here. The UI just says "To enable inbound traffic [to your VPC(s)] through your transit gateway, coordinate with your network administrator."

Author: Yeah, I fixed that elsewhere, but this escaped. Clarified.

> * On AWS, add the Anypoint VPC routes to the AWS VPC route table.

Reviewer 2: These routes are for inbound traffic (into the VPC) from some external network. FYI this configuration doesn't always happen in AWS, and it can be pretty complex. We may have to be more vague here. The UI just says "To enable inbound traffic [to your VPC(s)] through your transit gateway, coordinate with your network administrator."

[NOTE]
A maximum of 95 route table entries is permitted per VPC, regardless of the number of transit gateway attachments.

> Consolidate networks to the fewest number possible to avoid exceeding the limit.  

Reviewer: Should we mention consolidation earlier, as a sort of prereq to configuring the routes?

Author: Added to that section.

=== Limitations

> For information about limitations when attaching a VPC to a transit gateway, 

Reviewer: These are limitations to the task of attaching? Should this info be with the task?
Or should we mention this earlier, with the first mention of attaching a VPC to a gateway?

Author: Added to the task.
